Please now welcome to the stage,
Tim Bumgarner.
Welcome.
It's exciting to be here.
This is our fourth year, I believe,
at presenting AppleScript Studio at
a developer conference.
And it's been an exciting,
terrific ride that we've
been working on here.
Before I get started
with my presentation,
I'd actually like to take
a little bit of a poll,
so it'll help me gear what we talk about.
How many people have ever
actually used AppleScript Studio?
Great.
How many use AppleScript Studio on
a regular basis?
Okay, terrific.
So I'll keep it at about
that intermediate level.
Thank you.
All right,
let's talk a little bit about it.
And of course, I'm Tim Bumgarner,
AppleScript Studio Lead Engineer.
What I'd like to do is to show you
a little bit about what you're going
to learn today in this session.
And we're going to do an
overview of AppleScript Studio.
So for those of you that haven't
ever seen it or ever used it,
we'll give you a quick tour
of what it's like to create an
AppleScript Studio application.
We're going to touch a little bit upon
the enhancements we've made for Xcode
to better support AppleScript Studio.
And of course,
the most exciting thing is to talk about
some of the new features that we're going
to be providing in studio for Tiger.
So what is AppleScript Studio?
AppleScript Studio is this very exciting
technology that we've put together,
and it pulls together a lot of
different aspects of technologies
that we have at Apple.
It takes advantage of the developer
tools we have so that we could
integrate AppleScript support
into Xcode and Interface Builder
to make it very easy for you to
create these applications that are,
in fact, native Mac OS X applications.
So that when you build these
and construct them using
AppleScript as your language,
you can save and distribute
these applications to anybody
else that has a Mac OS X system.
And they can run that application
without needing any other additional
frameworks or components to go with it.
It all just works.
Now, additionally,
you can take advantage of all the
features of Xcode such that you
could add additional functionality
using either AppleScript or
Objective-C or other languages,
even Java.
And you get to take advantage of Cocoa,
its rich user interface.
So it's really a two-part solution.
It has a runtime component,
and this is an AppleScript kit.
It's a public framework that's
provided with the system.
It contains, in essence,
it's the glue between
Cocoa and AppleScript itself.
So it'll know when something
happens in the user interface,
and it knows how to call your script
and execute a particular handler.
And that's what provides the
functionality of a Studio application
as it's run by the user.
Now,
it's also a development side piece to it.
And we've developed plugins into
Xcode so that it knows how to edit,
add, or edit, compile, and build,
and even debug AppleScript inside
of the development environment.
And we've also added a palette and
interface builder to make it very
easy to put these things all together.
So how's it being used?
Well, it has been about four years.
So we've been paying attention,
watching what's been happening with
Studio and how people are actually
using it out there in the real world.
And we found that a lot of
people have taken Studio,
and it's a great tool to
use to wrap shell commands.
So there's these low-level tools that
are laying around in this wonderful
Unix environment that we have,
but smear mortals don't know how
to use them for the most part.
There's a lot of parameters.
I don't know how many have ever
actually pulled up a man page and go,
hmm, what was that?
Some of them are quite long.
But people that do understand it,
understand Studio,
can take and put the best of both
together so that they can provide a nice,
simple user interface that has
checkboxes and pop-ups and little fields.
And when it runs,
it actually executes that
low-level functionality.
And there's a lot of great
examples of that in use.
We also find it's a
great prototyping tool.
And the reason it's such a good
prototyping tool is that you get to
use the same exact developer tools,
the same process,
as you do in the real world.
And that's because you can use
Studio as if you were to start off
with a Cocoa application so that
you learn all of the methodology
of creating that application.
And so you can start off in Studio,
put together some things very quickly,
get a look and feel that you like,
and then as needed,
you can replace performance-critical
areas with direct Cocoa calls or
correct Cocoa classes as you need them.
And of course,
the other thing that we've seen is
people create applications using
Studio to control other applications,
because that's really where
the leverage comes in.
Apple Script is awesome at
being able to talk to other
applications that are scriptable,
of course, and get data from the other
application and even to control them.
So we find a lot of examples of that.
And we also find that, of course,
our core customers really use
that for their workflow solutions.
So they will create workflows as
needed and use these controls.
Excuse me.
So that they can put together these
nice interfaces and have this workflow.
Instead of the old way with
AppleScript is you would have
to prompt the user dialogue
after dialogue after dialogue.
You'd have a dialogue that come up,
ask a question, hit okay,
and it would bring up another dialogue.
Well, you can do away with all of
that with AppleScript Studio.
And last but not least,
and the thing I'm most excited about,
is that Automator uses Studio itself.
As a matter of fact,
many of the actions that you've
seen in Automator are done with
AppleScript Studio in conjunction
with Cocoa Bindings and Objective-C.
And they all work just
seamlessly together.
And we're very excited about that.
So what I would like to
do is just take a moment,
switch over to the demo machine,
and just give you a quick feel
of what it's like to create a
studio application from scratch.
So I'm going to go into
Xcode and close this project.
And we're going to start off with
a new project in the file menu.
And you'll notice that when I bring
up the new project assistant that
there are several different templates
that are already pre-built for you in
order to create studio applications.
The first one will create a very simple
application that has a single window.
The second one is a
document-based application.
So if you need multiple documents,
this will be the one you choose.
The third one is a droplet.
So if you need to be able to create
an application that sits on the
desktop and users drag files onto it,
you can process those
files in interesting ways.
For those of you that have used
AppleScript a lot in the past,
this is very similar to an applet that
you would save or a droplet that you
would save from the script editor.
For our purposes,
we're going to go ahead and choose
the AppleScript application.
And I'm going to call
this project user info.
And we're going to go ahead and
override these selected files.
And I'm going to go into the very
first thing we're going to do,
just a quick overview of where
things are located in a project.
First is there's a scripts folder.
This is typically where you
put all of your .AppleScript
files and the resources.
And here is our main menu .nib.
Those are the two most
important aspects that we need
to deal with in this project.
So I'm going to go ahead and
double click on this nib,
which is our interface.
And it'll open it up inside
of Interface Builder.
And here I've got a simple window.
And what I'm going to do is actually,
instead of creating a simple hello world,
which I've done in the past,
it has a simple button, you click it,
and it says hello world,
we're going to take advantage
of a new feature that we have in
AppleScript that we've added for Tiger,
and it's called system information.
So actually, if I fire up Script Editor,
and we'll take a look
at the library window.
This is an easy way to get to the
dictionary of the standard editions.
I'm going to double click
this and take a look at,
and I believe it's under
the miscellaneous classes.
You will see that there's this new
thing called system information.
It's a new class or record.
So now it's very simple to get,
for instance, the AppleScript version.
I can get the system version.
I can get the short
username or long username.
There's other things
like its home directory,
the computer name, IP address,
the CPU type.
So it's some really
new functionality here,
so it makes it very easy for you to
determine what type of environment
is this script running in.
So for our purposes of the demo,
all I want to do is grab the username,
the long username,
and I want to also use the computer name.
So I'll go ahead and hide this,
and we'll drag out a text field.
And you'll see as I'm dragging around,
I get the nice interface builder we'll
put off the guidelines so I know that
I'm actually putting everything as far as
Aqua is concerned in the right location.
And I'll drag out a text field.
And we'll go ahead and
call this one username.
And we'll write a line
that as it should be.
And get those all lined up nice and neat.
Make a copy of that.
And just we'll add a simple button
in order to fill that data out.
And we'll call this Get Info.
And grab-- don't quit.
Grab all these.
Again, line them up here as close
enough for the moment.
And then the next thing we need to do
is we've got our interface laid out.
Now AppleScript is very
containment oriented.
It needs to be able to talk to
objects through its containment.
In this case, window is the top level,
and I'll make sure that
I name that window.
by going to the AppleScript panel
in the info window,
and we'll call this main.
And I'm going to then name some other
objects that I need to reference.
So I'm going to reference this field,
and I'm going to give
that a name of user name.
Good, thank you.
Good catch.
Thank you, Paul.
So we're going to call
this one Computer Name.
and Nehmer, not Nehmer, okay,
there we go.
And we'll change this to computer name,
thanks.
Okay.
Well, not quite wide enough,
so we'll fix that.
[Transcript missing]
and it will launch the application.
If everything is right,
I'm going to click Get Info.
And there you go.
It went and got the user name
logged in as AppleScript Studio,
and it happens to be the
computer name is WWDC 2004.
And just that simple.
Now it's an iterative process.
Then you just go back
into Interface Builder,
add your additional interface,
and just keep attaching handlers
and scripts and filling those out.
So I can go back to slides, please.
So let's talk just a few minutes about
the new Xcode support we've added.
We've added native
target support to Xcode.
So now, and that's very important
for several good reasons.
The main reason is that the native target
system or native build system in Xcode is
where all the new features are going in.
So for things like ZeroLink,
we now get to take advantage of.
So it's very quick in your turnaround
as you build your application.
You don't have to go through
this long link process.
It's very quick.
And so any other new features
that come into Xcode,
we'll be able to take advantage of that.
So we stay current with all the
other languages that are supported.
We also took advantage of
improving the code assistant.
It had a very limited amount of support.
We've now increased that so
that it's on the parity with the
script editor script assistance,
which also got enhanced.
So now you're going to have the
same look and feel no matter
where you're editing scripts.
It will have all the same terminologies
and autocompletions for you.
So it's a consistent look and feel.
And we've also added support
for compiled scripts.
Up to this point, AppleScript files have
been saved as .AppleScript.
And what we wanted to do was also be able
to support .SCPT or compiled scripts.
So that you can compile
a script on your machine,
which might do something like a
tell application FileMaker Pro.
It will save that application.
If I give that project to somebody else,
they don't necessarily have to
have FileMaker Pro on their system,
whereas before they did.
So this makes it a
little more convenient.
And then if anything in
the terminology changes,
you get that for free.
The next time you open up that script,
the terminology will
automatically change.
Whereas before, you would have to go and
fix the broken terminology.
Finally, we get to the fun stuff.
Since we're at an intermediate level,
we'll talk about some
of the new technologies,
the new features that we've added to
AppleScript Studio for the Tiger release.
The first thing I want to
say is we actually do listen.
I personally read every
mail that comes across the
AppleScript Studio mailing list.
And we look at that.
I try to answer as many as I can.
Unfortunately,
it's not as many as I'd like to.
But we do read them
and we see the trends.
Where are people struggling?
What are they having difficulties with?
What areas are a performance issue?
Where is it not flexible enough?
And so we've tried to incorporate as
many of those as we could in the best
priority that we could determine.
So what are some of those new features?
We've got more data view support.
The data view seemed to be one of the
top things that people want to script.
And so we've found that we've tried to
make it easier and better performance
to add data to your data source.
But we found that it's still difficult
to get that data back out so that you
can do something meaningful with it.
For instance,
store that data and put it back with
the same fidelity as you put it in.
So we've made that simpler.
We've also made it sure that it works
for both table views and outline views.
Outline views have sort
of been the stepchild,
a little often ignored.
So we've taken care of that.
We've also found that people wanted
to be able to have better control in
their drag and drop for data views.
So we've had some support
so you could drag in items,
but we haven't given you the
opportunity to determine where in
that view you want that data to drop.
And more importantly,
people wanted to be able to
reorder items within their table
or outline view very simply.
So we've provided that.
And another one I'm very excited
about is toolbar support.
That's sort of the one thing
that if you looked at Studio,
it was sort of missing from
a native Cocoa application.
That was very difficult for you
to actually add your own toolbar.
You would have to go
directly to Cocoa to do that.
We've made it incredibly
simple for you to do that,
to add to your own applications.
We've also taken care of some of
the term-- we're going to look
at the terminology that we have.
And I had to do a review over the
documentation of the reference manual.
And there were just too many
places where it said not supported.
We'd have it defined, but not supported.
So we're going to address that as well.
And of course,
we've added some additional functionality
to better support Automator.
So that's built right into
the new features that we have.
So let's go look through
these one at a time.
More data view support.
We've had this command for a
little while called append.
And it was very simple to
append data to a data source.
Unfortunately,
it only worked for table views.
Now it works for outline views.
So you can append hierarchical
data at any place that you
want within the data source.
And the thing that's really
cool is the content property.
For most of the AppleScript people,
it's like sort of those duh things.
Why wasn't there one to begin with?
But now there's a content property.
So it's very simple to simply say set
content of table view to some data.
And it just creates it for you.
It takes care of all of the
work that needs to be done.
But since it is a content property,
you can get it right back out.
You can say get content of
table view or outline view,
and you get all your data right back.
And you can also control
how that data comes back.
You can put the data in as a list
of lists or a list of records,
and then you can also figure out how you
want to get it back as the same format.
And we've also added support
for the sort indicators.
And the last one is that data
sources historically have
been sort of this all-knowing,
all-powerful thing that gave you great
performance but was very inflexible.
It didn't want to give any control
back to you as the scripter
or the application writer.
And so we've tried to
add that support as well.
and as I discussed,
and now the append command works
for both outline and data views.
You can append data as a list of strings.
So if you have a simple table with
a call or table view with one data,
one table column,
you can list that as add as
a list of strings or list
of lists or list of records,
whatever is the most
convenient for you to use.
The content property.
What's exciting about this is that you
can set the content of that table view
and it will do everything for you.
It will create the data source,
create all the necessary data columns,
and create all the data rows or data
items that are needed for that view,
for all the data that's provided.
With one line of script,
you can now populate an entire
data source or data view.
And that's very exciting.
And again, as I mentioned before,
both table view and outline view.
Outline view is no longer the stepchild.
Getting data out.
Again, as I mentioned,
you simply ask for the content
of a table view or an outline
view and you get that data back.
Now, the problem with a content getting
the data is that we have to give
it back to you in some format.
And there's unfortunately in
AppleScript it's not possible to say
get content of table view as a list
of records or as a list of lists.
It just doesn't work that way.
So we have a property on the data source.
It's called returns records.
You can set that to true.
The data comes back as a list of records.
Faults,
you get it back as a list of lists.
So you get the flexibility
that you want to decide what
format you want that data in.
And here's back to that
sort of all-knowing,
all-powerful data source.
It's been a wonderful thing because
the performance is so much better.
The very first iterations is that you
had to provide all the event handlers,
but the table view,
every time it needed to update that cell,
it would ask you for the value.
Well, that's terribly slow because it has
to send an event every single time.
When we added the data source support,
it all came very fast because
it took care of everything.
That was sort of the problem.
It took care of everything.
You didn't get an opportunity
to know when the user changed
something in your table view.
So if they edited a data, a table cell,
you didn't know.
It's a little event handler.
Even we would let you
add the event handler,
we just ignored it.
So that little table
event handler would go,
tell me, tell me,
tell me when you change data, please.
And the data source would say,
I know better.
I'm not going to talk
to this guy over here.
So he'd go ahead and do it,
and he'd just ignore it.
But we finally realized the
data source got smart and said,
you know what, that little event handler
knows something I don't.
So it gives him an
opportunity to call you.
So you get to pick and choose which
event handler you want to implement in
your table view so that you can get the
best flexibility out of it as you want.
So we're much happier with the new way.
and sort indicators.
So it's very simple to set now a
Boolean property on the table view
to say whether or not you want little
indicators up in your table column.
You don't have to call Cocoa to do that.
And the default is false at the moment.
So what I'd like to do
is invite John Coelho.
He's our AppleScript Studio quality
assurance engineer and to help make
sure I don't mess up like I did before.
Thank you, John.
And we're going to give you some quick
demonstrations of this technology.
So what he's going to do is we're going
to first start off with our table view.
And the first thing we do is
go into the interface builder,
and we're going to see we have a very
simple table view here with two columns.
And he's going to drill down
and select the table view.
And what we're going to do is
we're going to use Awake from Nib.
That's a handler that gets
called when the window is open,
and it's a good place
to populate our data.
And then let's go to
the application object,
and we're going to make sure that
we've got the launched handler.
Because a very good strategy in
Studio is if there's something
you need to put in the window,
add data, change the UI,
make sure you do that before
the window becomes visible.
So by default, we make sure that the
window is not visible,
and launched is a good
place to show our window.
So let's go ahead and save that, John.
And we'll go back in
and we'll add our code.
So from Awake from Nib,
he's going to add our code.
And go ahead and add that line.
And we're going to add our code.
And let's take a look at that.
There you go.
One line of script is going
to populate the table.
It does all of that
work that I mentioned,
creates the data source,
creates the data columns,
creates all the necessary data rows.
Before this would have been
about ten lines of script.
Now it's one.
So let's go ahead and build and run this.
And there you go.
Just that quick, it's populated the table
view and it works just fine.
Matter of fact, let's show you now how
easy it was to get it in,
that's how easy it is to get it back out.
And he's going to go into Script Editor,
drag in a little bit of script
that's going to talk to the table
view and ask it for its contents.
Now you'll notice that it came
back as a list of records.
How did we put it in?
It was a list of lists.
So we can go ahead and set our returns
records to false and run it again.
And you see it comes back
now as a list of lists.
So you've got fidelity with the
data going into your data source.
You can get it back out
in that same format.
That way it makes it very
simple to store it in just any
type of a file that you like.
Okay.
Now one more thing we talked
about is that flexibility issue.
What we want to know is when the user
actually changes one of the table cells
so that we can do something about it.
So let's quit the application, John.
Glen Interface Builder.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to go to the table view category,
and we're going to add a change
cell value event handler.
This handler gets called when the
user tries to change the data.
So let's say that.
and go ahead and add our line.
Now, looking at the handler itself,
it passes a few objects.
The interesting one is
at the end is the value.
This value is whatever the user typed in.
So you can decide to do something
interesting like if a checkbox
got changed in one column,
update something in another column.
In this case,
we're just going to force it to return a
different value so that we can actually
change the value as it comes in.
So let's build and run this.
Okay, and so when John goes
over and tries to type no,
it'll let him type no,
but as soon as he goes off of it,
you'll see it says, I don't think so.
So we actually got to control,
we get to work with the data
source instead of the data
source working against us.
All right, thank you, John.
Let's go back to slides, please.
Drag and drop support.
Don't go anywhere, John.
I thought he was going to get away.
So we're going to do our
drag and drop support.
Talk a little bit about that.
Now what we've done is that made it very
simple for you to not only drag items in,
but control where they
go within the drag.
And then also be able to
reorder items within the drag.
And we've done this also
by making it very simple.
With one property,
you set allows reordering to true.
You don't have to do anything.
You just set the one line of script.
And you can automatically drag items.
Cocoa doesn't even make this available.
So this is something
we've got to leg up on.
We do the new drag and drop
through three new event handlers.
So now that there is a handler
for when the drag begins,
and you can put whatever type of
data you want on the Paceboard
as the user drags things around.
There's a handler that gets
called as the drag is happening.
So you get to decide whether
it's a copy or a move,
or if it should happen
at a particular location.
And then there's another handler that
gets called when the item is dropped.
And there's three
handlers for table view,
three handlers for outline view.
and there's also two additional ones.
We've added two event handlers called
rows changed and items changed.
You can have these handlers attached
to a view so that you can find
out whenever the data changes.
So for instance,
if some other data is driving the source,
you can get notified of those changes.
And reordering support I mentioned
is simply setting a Boolean
property on the table view.
Just a couple notes.
Obviously if you're going to reorder,
that means it's not a sorted data view.
So if you set sorting on,
you're not going to be able to reorder.
You have to decide
which is more important.
It only works,
this automatic support only works if
you drag items within a table view.
If you need to support
dragging things in,
you're going to have to
do that work as well.
So it's not, it doesn't automatically
support the external drags.
So let's take a look
at an example of this.
Now, we've showed you the table view,
and just to prove the fact that it
actually does work with the outline view,
this time we're going to
start with an outline view.
And let's look at the nib.
And again, he's going to drill in,
and we need to attach-- we're
going to go to our outline view.
and we're going to add these
three new event handlers.
Can't quite see it down there,
so I'll have to look up here.
And what we're going to add
is the prepare outline drag.
We're going to add prepare outline drop.
And the last one is accept outline drop.
And that's all we need to do in this.
So we'll go ahead and
save and edit the script.
And John's going to enter in,
the first thing we need to do is whenever
you're going to start a drag and drop,
you need to tell the view what
type of drags you want to receive.
So whether it's files or other
type of things or colors.
In this case,
we want to make sure that we register
for the items that are being drugged
so that we can do reordering.
Or we want also to support file names.
So let's go down to the prepare
for drag and add that script.
and what it does is it sets
the contents on the pasteboard.
And then the very last thing
in that handler is to make
sure you return true or false.
If you don't want the drag to start,
just simply return
false and it will stop.
But you always typically
want to return true.
So it's now going to fill out the
handler that gets called as the user
drags things up and down in your view.
And the thing that's most
important in here is we have to
return a type of drag operation.
And it's an enumerated type.
There's like a no drag operation,
move or copy.
And we determine that based on whether or
not they're holding down the option key.
and now we'll go down to the last one.
Now admittedly,
this is a fairly long bit of script here.
and we'll let John put those in there
till we get down to right about here.
You are an incredibly fast typer, John.
Okay, so we're down at the
bottom of this handler.
And let's go ahead and check this index.
And let's go back up and
look at it just very quickly.
This is the handler that gets
called when the user drops
something on the outline view.
And what it will do is it gets
the data from the pasteboard.
It's going to check to see
what type of data it is.
If it's items, that means it's a reorder.
It then looks to see if the option,
the state of the key, the option key,
if it's a copy operation,
it's going to do a copy.
So scroll down a little further, John.
And if it's a move, we'll do that.
Otherwise, it goes down further.
Else,
if the file names is being dragged in,
then we look at it again and
decide it's always a copy.
And we're just going
to copy in that item.
So let's go ahead and build and run this,
John.
Take a look.
So here's our outline view,
and he's going to go
ahead and expand that.
And he's going to drag one of the items.
And you'll see that
when he lets go of it,
it puts it inside of that one actually.
And we can actually take another one on
the bottom and put it inside that we can
reorder and put items wherever we like.
Now he's going to take an item
from the desktop and drag it in.
and you'll notice that if
he drags on the outside,
it would have added it to the end.
Or he can decide where he wants to
put that item in the outline view.
So it's just that simple in order
to now support the fine control
that you need in an outline view.
Thanks, John.
Slides, please.
Toolbar support.
As I said,
very excited about this because it sort
of fills in that missing gap that we had.
And we do this through
a couple new classes.
There's a toolbar class.
[Transcript missing]
Take a look at that.
So the process.
How do you create a toolbar?
In order to create a toolbar,
you simply make it,
just like you do anything
else in AppleScript.
You set its allowed and
default identifiers.
These are identifiers that say,
the allowed are what possible set of
toolbar items can I have in my toolbar.
So, for instance,
if you go to the customization palette,
you'll see all of the possible choices.
The
The default identifiers are
the identifiers that the user
sees the initial time that
he starts your application.
So you set those two sets of
-- they're a list of strings.
You make the toolbar items.
So now you go through and create
all the custom toolbar items
that you have in your toolbar.
And then you assign that
toolbar to the window.
Now, what happens when the user
starts working with your toolbar?
So as I mentioned,
the update toolbar item
gets called by the system.
The system will say, okay,
these toolbar items need to be adjusted.
The user's done something in
the menu or clicked somewhere,
and we need to make sure that the
toolbar states are all correct.
And so it will call that,
and you get the opportunity
to change the title,
you can change the icon,
change the tool tip as they
move the mouse over that.
And the most important thing in this
handler is that you decide whether or
not that given toolbar item is enabled.
And you return true if
you want it enabled,
false if not.
And then when the user actually
clicks on a toolbar item,
you just respond and add this
event handler to your window,
and you can find out which one was
clicked by just comparing its name,
its identifier.
There are several different ways that
you can find out which one was clicked.
Now, if you're really advanced,
we actually can set the script
object of a toolbar item.
So if that script object
contains a clicked handler,
we're going to call that one.
So it's not,
you don't necessarily have to
say if name of this is that,
else if name is this, else if that.
You can just go ahead and define separate
scripts for each item in your toolbar.
And we'd like to show you how that works.
So demo machine.
Okay.
Now, one reason why there hasn't been
support is that Interface Builder
itself doesn't support toolbar
creation right inside of it.
So we needed to be able
to do this from script.
And what we're going to do is we
make sure we go to the window that
we want the toolbar attached to.
And we're going to go to it.
Go ahead and go to the AppleScript panel.
and we're going to set the Wake from Nib.
That'll be the place to create it.
And then there's a new toolbar category.
And we're going to use the
clicked and updated items.
Go ahead and edit that script.
Ah, but it doesn't.
We'll see.
If you may be right,
then I'll look really foolish.
I'll really owe you twice.
Okay, let's go through.
And this was a
document-based application,
so it already had a couple of items here.
And we're going to go down
to the Awake from Nib.
And he's going to paste that in.
And we'll let him go
ahead and fill that out.
And when it's finished,
we'll go ahead and check the
syntax on this handler and then
talk about each of the items.
That's very difficult
to see on this monitor,
so I'm going to look up here.
And one more.
So let's go back up to
the Awake from Nebjhan.
and look at each of the pieces to this.
So the object again is the window.
This is what the event
handler is attached to.
And it's going to make them
toolbar and it's going to
create it with some properties.
One is the name and that's just
like anything we use in Studio.
That's the name of the toolbar.
Then it's going to create
and use an identifier.
Identifiers are very important
to toolbars in Cocoa.
Each of them have to have a unique name.
And so we've got an identifier here.
And then there's some other
properties that you can set.
Whether or not the toolbar is
resizable or can be customized.
What size it starts off in.
In our case, we're going to set these
all to default values.
And then the next line is
the allowed identifiers.
And this is the possible set
of identifiers that we want
to allow in our toolbar.
You'll notice the first three is compile,
run and stop.
These are our toolbar items that
we want to add to the toolbar.
Everything from that point
on are standard identifiers.
So there are such things as,
what do we have there?
We've got customize, flexible space,
a space, a separator.
Those are, we just set those in there and
we'll get those support for free.
The next line is the
default set of identifiers.
What do I want my toolbar to look
like initially the first time
they start their application?
And so that we'll set that, in our case,
we just want the compile,
run and stop toolbar items.
And then what we do is we'll set
the default set of identifiers.
And then we'll set the
default set of identifiers.
And then what we do is we'll set
the default set of identifiers.
And then we'll set the
default set of identifiers.
as we create each of those toolbar items.
So we have make new toolbar item.
And again, with the properties,
we make sure that the identifier
is exactly the same as what we
specified in the other lists above.
If there's a misspelling or
you've not quite got it right,
it's not going to work correctly.
So make sure that those are the same.
And so we've created one for our compile,
we've created one for the run,
and we've created one for the stop.
And finally,
now we've got all the pieces in place,
we just set the toolbar item,
or the toolbar property of the window.
It's all done.
This is even simpler than
it is in Cocoa as well.
And then the last thing we do is
look at the last two handlers.
If the user clicks,
in this case we're going
to only look for one click.
We're going to look and see if
they clicked on the compile button.
And if it does,
we're going to simply display a dialog.
If they click on the update toolbar item,
or when this update gets called,
we're going to just simply
say we want them all enabled.
I could have easily checked for a state.
I might have been compiling,
and therefore,
I want to make sure the stop is enabled,
but the run is disabled
or change the state.
This is the place to do that.
So let's go ahead and build and run that.
And you'll see there's our toolbar.
Very simply done.
We can customize it.
We can go in and look at
that and add our items.
and finish that up.
And we can see that when
we actually click on it,
it adds our, calls our display dialogue
and create a new window.
and there you go, just that simple.
Thank you, John.
Let's go back to slides, please.
Okay,
I mentioned terminology improvements.
We are going to look at all
of the broken terminology,
all the terminology
that says not supported.
If it's defined and we can fix it,
we'll fix it.
If it's defined and we just can't fix it,
well, it didn't work to begin with,
so we'll just deprecate it and
take it out of the terminology.
There are a couple conflicts currently.
I believe file type and
file kind is a problem.
We'll address that and
make sure that's fixed.
And we'll, of course,
add any new terminology as needed.
There's my guy.
I like that robot.
All right.
We've added some support for Automator.
One of the things you'll find
is that as you're putting
together an Automator action,
that you can quite often do
everything with Cocoa Bindings.
As a matter of fact,
that's what we recommend.
Use Cocoa Bindings.
It's very simple.
It takes care of the UI issues for you.
But sometimes it's not enough.
For instance,
we have many actions that when
the action is added to Automator,
it needs to go talk to another
application in order to populate
something like a pop-up button.
So, for instance,
when we bring in the new
Mail Automator action,
the first thing we do is we go
talk to Mail and ask it for all of
its accounts so that we can then
populate that account pop-up for you.
So Cocoa Bindings can't
quite do that unless I were
to go write some Cocoa code.
Well, that's not sufficient if we were
trying to do it all in AppleScript.
So this is where Studio comes in.
It makes it very simple for you to go in.
There is a wake from nib that you
can attach to the view and then
populate whatever you need to do.
So another example.
There are several actions that change
the file names in certain ways.
And so we've added an example section.
So as you click on the UI objects,
we update that example so you
can see how that is actually
going to change your file names.
It makes it much more obvious.
So there's another great example of that.
But then we found that it was
necessary at the point when you want
to run or save your workflow that we
find out what things have changed.
Because it wasn't bound
with Cocoa Bindings,
which takes a lot of this for you,
we have to give you an
opportunity so that you can
update that parameters object.
So if you saw our demos yesterday,
you saw that parameters object.
This is what we're doing to
give you that functionality.
and as we mentioned before,
it works right alongside
of Cocoa Bindings.
It's not in competition with it.
One doesn't replace the other.
They can work together seamlessly.
And you can mix in Cocoa as needed.
Going very fast today.
This is going to be a short session,
which probably makes you all very happy.
So we've got the new incredibly
easy-to-use data sources.
We've made it even easier
than we've done in the past,
but at the same time,
we've made it much more flexible
so that you have the opportunity
to decide what it is that you
want to do to interact with it.
We've added cool new
drag-and-drop support.
And actually, we forgot one demo.
Yes, we did.
Thank you.
That's okay.
I've got time to burn.
Going anywhere?
All right.
Let's go over here.
I'll actually run this one by myself.
Let's go back to the demo machine.
I'm sorry, John,
you should have said something.
One of them we forgot to show you
was the auto support for reordering.
And I'm going to go ahead
and fire up that demo.
And we'll go into the interface builder.
I forgot this.
Very cool demo.
I can't believe that.
So what we're going to do is
go into the table view itself.
I'm going to go ahead and add
the Awake from Nib so that
I can populate the table view.
And then I'm going to actually
add a handler to this checkbox
so as the user checks it,
it will turn on that state
of allows reordering.
So I'm going to go ahead
and click on the clicked.
And assign it to there.
Save it.
Edit the script.
Now the interesting part is
remembering what the code is for this.
So I believe that we have the final one.
Because now I don't get to use
my fancy-dancy demo assistant.
So let's open this up in TextEdit.
And we'll grab everything that's
inside of this Awake from Nib.
And we'll put it inside of here,
so we populate the data
in the Awake from Nib.
And we'll go down here and
we'll grab this simple line
and go back up here to clicked.
Check the syntax, looks good.
So, that one extra Awake from Nib,
good catch.
And we'll run that.
And you'll see here is my application.
It's up and running.
And if I try to drag,
it won't let me drag.
So if I go down and
click allows reordering,
I can now reorder items without
having to write any code whatsoever
other than simply enabling that.
So let's look at that again.
So it's just a matter
of populating the table,
and then you just turn
on that simple property,
and it's very simple.
Again, this works for both table
views and outline views.
We make sure it works for both.
So let's go back to the slides, please.
My apologies, John.
Sorry.
Okay, and also toolbar support.
So we've shown you how easy
it is to add toolbar support.
Now,
we showed you that there are actually on
clicked and on update for the toolbar.
We've actually added a
couple additional pieces.
You can even call Cocoa things
from these toolbars.
So now there's an optional
parameters to a toolbar item.
One of them is target.
So just as you've used in Cocoa,
if you know anything of Cocoa,
you can actually establish
the target of that action.
And then you get to define
what Cocoa method gets called.
And it makes it very simple to tie into
other applications and take advantage
of things like WebKit or something
else that we might make available.
And Automator absolutely loves Studio.
I can't express it enough that it's
a very powerful combination in order
to make it very easy for you to
create these actions for Automator.
Now,
it seems like I've been very forgetful.
I've already forgotten at least one demo.
And I know that there's something else.
What did I forget?
There was something else.
I remember--
Oh yeah, OSA Kit.
You know,
I thought about this and I thought,
you know, WebKit has its own web,
you know,
or web services has its own WebKit.
I see that QuickTime now has a QT Kit,
so why doesn't OSA get its own kit?
So that's what we've done.
We've actually taken and created a
public framework so that you can take
advantage of the same things that we have
underlying all of our Cocoa technologies.
So there's actually a public framework.
It's called OSA Kit.
It provides several public
classes for you to use.
There's an OSA Script class.
This class is a superset of abilities of
the NSAppleScript class that's in Cocoa.
It will allow you to do load and execute,
which NSAppleScript does,
but it will also let you save scripts.
And it will also let you execute
scripts in different ways that
are provided by NSAppleScript.
I will say a note that it in
no way replaces NSAppleScript.
If you need to simply do
the things that it provides,
then we recommend that because
then you don't have to link
in this additional framework.
But if you do have a little higher needs,
we recommend that you then
use the OSA Script class.
We have this OSA Script view
that then makes it very simple
for you to edit scripts.
And we do this by
providing a new palette.
And so that you can actually go
into Interface Builder and drag out
a view and embed within your own
application the ability to edit scripts.
And so I'd actually want to also mention
that we use this as our foundation.
We use this for all of
our Cocoa AppleScript uses
within the AppleScript team.
So it underlies the
AppleScript kit itself.
We use it in the script editor.
Much of the functionality moved from
a script editor into OSA kit itself.
It's being used in Automator.
How many saw the RunScript action in use?
Well, that's being driven by OSAKit.
And then all the plugins we added to
Xcode for Studio are driven with OSAKit.
And so I'd like to give
you a demo of that as well.
Back up.
Demo machine.
So what I'm going to do is we're going
to build an entire script editor in IB,
no code.
And I'm going to go ahead
and create a new application.
And there is a new palette called OSA.
Now I will mention that
it's not in by default.
You actually have to go to the developer
extras and add that palette to your
application in order for it to show up.
But once you do, it stays there.
So you'll see that I have two
objects here and I have a window.
I'm going to drag out this script view.
And we'll drop it right
about here and drag it over.
and then we'll drag that down a little
further so we get some room to type.
And then I'm going to put a few buttons.
Now again,
I could easily put this back into
our toolbar example if we needed to,
but for purposes of this,
we're going to do it right here.
And I'm going to do a compile and
let's do another one with run.
So I'll drag that over.
Now I just simply have to make a
few connections by going back to the
OSA palette and I drag off what's
called an OSA script controller.
This is the thing that knows how to talk
between commands and the different views.
And so I'm going to make a connection
from that controller and go into
the connections palette and I'm
going to assign it as a script view.
And then I'm going to take the
compile button and I'm not going
to tell the script view directly.
I'm going to tell the
controller that it's time to,
in this case, compile and also run.
And we'll bind those together.
And I'll go ahead and run this.
And you'll see as I begin to type,
It's also doing all the script assistant.
I don't have to do
anything to support this.
It just happens.
So that now as I bring up the...
Oops, hit the right thing here.
There we go.
So it brings up the assistant.
It'll have nice little icons
to differentiate between types.
Let's do finder.
Name of every window.
And I'll wait for the window to populate.
Well, let's see if it's not going
to come up by default.
Once again, window and end.
So I'm going to go ahead and
click on the compile button.
And just that simply
compiles it and I'll run.
Well, in this case, nothing happened nor
did I see any results.
So it might be actually kind of
interesting to see the results.
So I'm gonna go back, choose a text view.
Any old text view will work.
Drag that out.
And we'll put it down here.
And all I have to do in order to
enable results is to make a connection,
assign it to the result view.
So now that when I run this and type
in like current date and compile,
run, you'll see that I get the result
there with no work whatsoever.
But wait, it gets better.
So we'll actually come in here and we'll,
this time let's try recording.
I'm going to put in a record button
and I'm going to wire that again to
my controller and we'll assign that.
And let's go ahead and run this.
And now if I click record and go
over here and start opening windows,
you'll see that the recording goes
right into that view again with no code.
Just that simple.
Slides, please.
Now, you might ask, well,
that's interesting,
but why is it important?
I think we found that in
particularly an automator where
we're trying to script a workflow,
sometimes it is important to be
able to edit your script in line,
and particularly if
you support recording,
you can record from within yourself,
and that might be very interesting.
I think we're looking forward
to some very wonderful examples
of how to use this technology.
And, of course,
the great benefit is that as we add new
features and functionality to OSA Kit,
not only will all of Apple's
tools take advantage of that,
but whatever you put on top of it
will also get advantage of that.
And so, just to quickly wrap up here,
is to talk about the reference library.
We did provide all of the sample
demos that you saw today are
available as session material
wherever you get those from ADC site,
I believe.
So, go ahead and grab those,
take a look at them, see how they work.
They're very clear in symbol.
Some of it's even boilerplate.
You just copy and paste it
into your own applications.
Then, of course,
all the various other documentation.
We have a great
AppleScript documentation.
If you go to the AppleScript site,
you'll find the studio terminology
reference and a building guide.
There's also Cocoa and Xcode
documentation to go along with that.
Who to contact?
You can talk to Jason.
John Montbriand for DTS needs.
And I highly, highly recommend the
AppleScript Studio mailing list.
There are some terrific
people on that list.
Some of them are here today.
I thank them for their support.
It's really beginning to grow
into a very wonderful community
to help each other out.
And we try to put our foot in
wherever we can to help along the way.
And it's wonderful.
So make sure you go there.
Sign up for it if you haven't already.
And then the AppleScript mailing
list is exactly the same.
same way.